The code provided uses a Decision Tree Classifier to classify the text into different segments. However, I tried applying different classifier algorithms like AdaBoost, LightGBM, XGBoost, MLPClassifier and Random Forest Classifier (RFC). It was observed that MLPClassifier gave the best results while AdaBoost gave the worst. For baseline, MLP had an accuracy of around 70%, 3-6% more than Decision Tree, whereas AdaBoost had its accuracy at around 28%. Hence, I decided to continue applying the various features on the RFC. 

I created numerous functions to successfully identify and help the model classify the different segments. For example, I created functions like check_head(), check_quote(), check_item(), check_sig() to classify the NNHEAD, QUOTED, ITEM, and SIG respectively. All these functions take the entire text and words in the text split by whitespace as an input and return an integer 'y' depending on how confident the function is of the particular text belonging to the particular segment. These values are inserted as features for the classifier.

The functions mentioned above substantially increased the accuracy of the model. With the training set giving around 92.5% accuracy for line and around 92.3% accuracy for segment. The function check_num() which provides the count of numbers in a particular text seems to be the most non-significant feature as commenting out this feature only affected the accuracy by around 0.02%. The check_quote(), check_head() and check_sig() functions performed exceptionally well as both these types of text have set rules to identify and hence I could get a precision and recall of above 0.97 for NNHEAD and QUOTED in both line and segment and above 0.9 recall and precision in segment for SIG.

Checking whether a particular text belongs to the plaintext PTEXT or a list ITEM is the most difficult part for the model as most of the list text in the training set resembles quite closely to the plaintext itself. The model could successfully classify the list items which were properly numbered but struggled to classify the multi-line lists barring the first line.   